good morning good afternoon or good
evening everyone wherever you are in
this world La Silla Montgomery back
again as promised with another CHP
episode part six today of our epic
overview of the history of Chinese
philosophy last week we were in the Han
Dynasty
today we've retrace our steps backward
along the China history timeline and
returned to the 6th century BCE to look
at loud sir gwangsu and the teachings of
Taoism will durant said it best when he
said quote loud sir the greatest of the
pre Confucian philosophers knew the
wisdom of silence and lived we may be
sure to a ripe old age that we are not
sure he lived it all tradition which
knows everything
credits him with his book the daodejing
and his name loud sir neither of which
may have belonged to him end quote
and from a historical point of view that
nearly sums it up is far as who loud so
was his short work the daodejing also
called the loud sir has to be attributed
to someone someone had to conveniently
exist who could be quoted and referred
to the louts of the ancient classics
could have been an amalgamation of
several people who yielded all this
wisdom over time if they were one person
well it's still hard to say if the words
we read today many of us in translation
are from this person from 2600 years ago
and as we all discussed in previous
episodes those days when loud so was
around the Chinese political entity was
hardly what it used to be things were so
bad that there were people who embrace
the thought that well maybe it was best
to just escape from the danger return to
nature and live like a hermit or recluse
forget about society and order and
etiquettes none under these conditions
it was better to get away from all the
madness live a life of simplicity out in
nature acting naturally not constrained
by anyone's rules and to look out for
oneself
people who thought this way these were
Taoism is initial core customers in
discussing loud says biography I hate to
say it but again this is one of those
thank God for so much yen kind of things
the record of the grand historian we
have to hang our hat once again on that
ancient work written during the Han
Dynasty
it states Louds came from Chu which
tells you a little bit right there chu
country was who pay back in those days
they had a different culture than what
was going on in and around the Yellow
River and all its tributaries the true
people were very spiritual living where
they did along the Yangtze River south
of the core ancient washa Chinese
civilization all along the Yellow River
tradition says loud says sir name was
Lee and his full name was Lee are his
courtesy name was done so he's also
referred to as Lee done lauda itself
just means old master here in Tinseltown
we also know him as loud soo although he
was famous for his contempt of
government Niles Estill learned his
daily rice from the Jo ruling family
working as a historiographer in the Jo
Royal archives if you recall from that
part three episode Confucius visited
loud so once in an official capacity I
told you that story so we know from the
reply he gave to Confucius that Louds
was already the feisty contemptuous old
chap that he's often portrayed as
Confucius makes several mentions of
meeting a lot done some people believe
he was referring to the philosopher
known as Lao Tzu and that his surname
was Lao not Lee but that shall remain a
mystery the rest of loud story according
to tradition anyway go something like
this he was still working his job in law
young as a curator at the Royal Cho
library when one day he just up and left
so disturbed and revolted had he become
in the way society and government had
deteriorated I mean these were the times
of the joke Kings laying and Jing Lords
had decided he had had enough so he hit
the road
on the back of an ox if you believe
somach in and as the story goes he
headed in a westerly direction towards
the outer frontiers of Joe Dynasty China
and as he got to the very last stop
before one left what was considered junk
wall or China the guardian of the gate a
gentleman by the name of Yin she
recognized loud so as you recall from
Confucius's reaction from meeting loud
sir the old master was already quite a
celebrity in his state and because of
this his fame had preceded his arrival
at the frontier gate Lanza informed in
XI he had had enough he's given up on
all the wickedness and brutality of the
times and was just going to wander the
western regions and live like a hermit
Yin she said to Lao Tzu wait before you
go loud sir
please write down for future generations
the encapsulation of your teachings that
wasn't a direct quote loud so sat down
and in one stream-of-consciousness wrote
out five thousand-plus characters
containing the essence of his thought
which would later on during the Han
Dynasty come to be called all ism dojo
when he was finished he handed this
eighty-one chapter first addition to Yin
Shi and that my friends was the
daodejing Lanza's antidote to cure all
of society's ills and for people to live
peacefully and naturally in harmony with
nature and then as legend has it Lord
said departed and was never heard from
again
what year was this and no one knows for
sure but it's estimated to be around the
five thirty s BCE Cyrus the Great and
Persia and the time of the Buddha in
India speaking of the former Siddhartha
Gautama there are stories that well
since the years sort of add up fictional
though they may be some wrote that after
Lanza handed over the daodejing to Yin
Shi
he turned south it went straight to
India no one could say for sure if he
did or he didn't but it said he ran into
the Buddha
just sayin so that is the historical
fiction version of the life of Lao Tzu
let us now try to unravel the meaning of
the daodejing
in the early history of Taoism the dahle
wisdom of Lao tzus age which as I just
mentioned wasn't even called Taoism yet
was not exactly as the Taoism that was
later practiced in the Han and for sure
not in the later Han Taoism is called
one of the two indigenous religions of
China
Confucianism being the other one of
course but we're not going to concern
ourselves much with Taoism the religion
or dojo we're only looking at the
philosophy don't ya
Taoism the religion Taoism the
philosophy not the same and of course I
mentioned before you could hardly call
Confucianism of religion in the sense
you can call Hinduism Islam or
Christianity or religion though means
way actually it means a lot of things
but for our purposes it means way or
road or path that Dao isn't the same as
the forces of yin and yang but they go
hand-in-hand the opening lines of the
daodejing
in describing what the dal is doesn't
offer you too much hope of learning its
meaning it comes straight out and says
mere mortals cannot fathom its meaning
it is beyond words you cannot name it
you could try to name it call it the dal
call it whatever you want but that name
doesn't describe it and even if you
think you have it figured out let me
assure you you don't the dal is the
origin and source of existence if that
helps you out loud so himself said quote
he who knows that dal does not speak he
who speaks up the dal does not know and
quote he believed silence and wisdom
went hand in hand wisdom Louds of
thought was not transmitted by words but
instead by example and experience the
daodejing is the guide that helps to
explain this mysterious and cosmic power
that's present in all natural things it
offers a primer and the proper conduct
individuals should undertake in order to
get it right
there are plenty of bad guys in Taoism
intellectuals are not admired unlike
Confucianism Daoism a scholar is
completely of no use in fact Taoism
considers the learned man a detriment to
the state since he thinks in legalist
principles that go completely against
natural freedoms and these legalist
principles they suppress humankind
rather than benefit us where legalism
was concerned
Taoism purported that people are
originally good and they espoused
absolute individual freedom legalism on
the other hand said people are
originally bad and required total social
control so being a Taoist living under
illegal a state ideology must have been
torture
Taoist believe philosophic thought
itself was superficial they saw it
useful for causing arguments and
creating deceptions Daoists rejected
that and idealized the simplicity of the
Shung and early joe days and abhorred
what china had become during the Eastern
Chou children were idealized for their
innocence and the idea of acquiring
knowledge was looked down on
they said that Dao is to be found by
rejecting the intellect and all its
wares and living a modest life of
retirement and rusticity and quiet
contemplation of nature loud siddhis
feared that people had lost their death
their virtue because they had too many
desires and too much knowledge knowledge
is in itself an object of desire it
enables people to know more about more
objects of desire and then serves as a
means to gain these objects as knowledge
increases so does one's desires Lanza
had no use for this mister hated his job
at the Joe imperial library the Taoist
view was that everything was fine when
times were simple before the days when
humans attained certain knowledge and
began organizing societies instituting
laws and building cities Taoist believed
a perfect world was one where people
never enter
feared with nature or use their
intelligence or power to his ned beatty
so eloquently put it back in the 1976
film network meddle with the primal
forces of nature loud 'sons recommended
solution to all the corruption and
violence of the eastern joe was to
return to a time that was although
relatively primitive was populated by
human beings who would stand apart from
all the corrupting influences of culture
literature urbanization laws and all the
advances in the Arts and Sciences nature
and the Taoist sense means natural
activity how everything flows in nature
all the seasonal cycles the Stars the
moon the rainy season the dry season
everything that is of nature Taoism
embraces all of that unreservedly one of
the Holy Grails of Taoism is to truly
understand this nature and the only way
to understand it is to flow with it well
how you flow with it well that's where
Taoism gets very very intricate and
complex you also said you needed to know
the laws of nature and conduct yourself
in accordance with these natural laws
because all the laws of nature were
connected and form the substance of all
reality the so called absolute Will
Durant called Taoism quote a stoic
obedience to nature an abandonment of
all artifice and intellect a trustful
acceptance of nature's imperatives in
instinct and feeling a modest imitation
of nature silent ways
end quote it's all about quiescence
being quiet inactive dormant refusing to
interfere with the natural course of
things
the mark of a wise person practicing
Taoism is all about this the doll
invariably does nothing and yet there is
nothing that is not done sounds simple
but it isn't the concept of quiescence
and going with the flow in Chinese also
has a name and this is called wool way
if you look up one way in a Chinese
dictionary it says in action Wu Wei is a
hard one to understand and get your arms
around especially in this 21st century
hyper materialist world we live in to
practice wool way in everything you do
which is what Louds essentially calls
for you achieve action through inaction
if you think this wool way advocates
getting stoned and sitting on the couch
all day watching TV it's not that kind
of inaction it's more a kind of acting
completely natural not willfully you're
in tune with your surroundings and all
the Chi that surrounds you and is within
you
wool way has also been defined as
perfect harmony between one's inner
dispositions and their external
movements in a natural spontaneous and
unselfconscious way it's not just about
living like a recluse in nature by
practicing wool way you can utilize the
power of emptiness detachment
receptiveness spontaneity wool way
touches on all of this wool way being
one with the dog all these ideas also
extended to governing that they'll de
Jing is peppered with words describing
how a proper ruler should act the people
are wholly taken care of in every
respect and are kept orderly and
peaceful yet the ruler does nothing to
force this to happen
the Taoist thought the Confucian astrays
II trying to impose all this order on
forces beyond their control you know
they're developed this ideal person in a
Taoist sense that is who is fit to rule
who follows the dull and has achieved
Jun Ren or perfected person status but
chooses to live apart from society and
live a life of simplicity here's an
everyday example of how something is
viewed through a Taoist pair of glasses
let's say you're walking down Melrose
Avenue and you find someone's wallet on
the street there's no looking inside to
see how much is in there should I keep
it return it there's none of this
weighing the situation or imagining what
the payoff
maybe if you return this wallet you
found to its rightful owner loud so
would say without thinking your natural
concern is to find the owner of this
wallet in the true Taoist sense this
should be your natural course of action
you take but as soon as you start
thinking about potential benefits or
acting righteously or calling this an
act of returning the wallet the
righteous thing to do you label your
actions and now they become phony and
artificial being done for a reason
rather than as a natural course of
action the Taoist way Taoism also warns
against the self-defeating consequences
of being aggressive proactive and
assertive in trying to get your way or
to act in any way that can be construed
to be you know self aggrandizing no
matter if you're a nation an army or
just an individual member of the human
race
to quote Lao Tzu or what loud so was
purported to have said quote if you do
not quarrel no one on earth will be able
to quarrel with you recompense injury
with kindness to those who are good I am
good and to those who are not good I am
also good the softest thing in the world
dashes against and overcomes the hardest
there is nothing softer or weaker than
water and yet for attacking things that
are firm and strong there was nothing
that could take precedence of it end
quote
Taoism calls for people to embrace a
world of simplicity and silence wisdom
and the dow was sense isn't read in
books or communicated by speech a true
follower of Taoism holds riches and
power as unimportant in short it totally
and wholeheartedly embraces a simple
life and 2,500 years ago it was well it
was only natural that people in general
were less removed from nature than we
are today in the 21st century living in
tune with nature was more fresh in the
memories and traditions of Zhuo Dynasty
Chinese than in these modern times so
when all the sudden Taoist beliefs
became more widespread and popularized
Taoism acted as a kind of black hole
where
these thousand-year-old or more folk
traditions from the Shang Dynasty and
earlier just gravitated towards that
force and became one with it when we
talk about Taoism the two central
characters are loud so we already
mentioned and drunk the two essential
works of Taoism are the daodejing
and the Tuan Tuan 'aa being the name of
the philosopher credited with writing it
as well as the name of the work Louds is
considered the founder and Duong is
considered the greatest disciple or
person who best articulated what Taoism
was all about drawings it was born a
hundred sixty years after the legendary
date of loud says passing and time moved
a lot slower back then than it does now
or maybe it felt that way let's look at
the daodejing
it's divided up into the classic of dal
that thought Jing that's chapters one
through thirty seven and the classic of
virtue
the de Jing the book is chock full of
aphorisms like Confucianism Taoism
considers an ideal person to be a sage a
shunran or better yet a perfected person
a Jun Ren if you read through the dotted
Jing it gives you example after example
of explanations how you two can achieve
this status a Confucian sage is someone
who attained the highest ethical
standards of benevolence and
righteousness the highest state a ruler
can attain but a Taoist sage as someone
who fully embraces the doll in every way
in order to be one with the universe a
Taoist sage has to transcend and forget
distinctions between things the way to
do this is to do something anathema to
Confucian as' discard knowledge
discarding knowledge is a method used by
Taoist to achieve sage leanness within
clouds a said quote the sage ruler rules
the people by emptying their minds
filling their bellies weakening their
wills toughening their sinews ever
making the people without knowledge and
without desire shin
pointed finger at the Daoists and
accused them of being blinded by nature
and that they had no knowledge of man as
far is all this Confucian teaching about
cultivating one's own benevolence
righteousness virtue propriety Daoists
reject that outright to carry out the
act of trying to be virtuous
it was phony artificial enforced it was
anything but natural the Delta Jing has
been studied to death and everyone
agrees it was neither written by one
person nor at one single time in other
words like almost all these Eastern Joe
era classics undo credit is given to one
person I mean that sure makes for a tidy
and easy to open package the early
champion of the doubt did Jing was Wong
beat he lived during the Han not for a
very long time either
226 to 249 he wasn't a Taoist but he did
write these earliest of commentaries on
the daodejing that became due rigueur
for any future scholar of Taoism and his
writings had a lot of lasting power -
Wang B's commentaries are still
referenced today in the 21st century Han
fades up by the way also devoted a
couple chapters and his work where he
discussed Louds in the doubt that jing
in 1993 in quality and village near jing
mutton in ho bay west of Wuhan the
oldest copy of the daodejing was found
that was dated to somewhere around 300
BCE so we know for sure this book goes
back to at least the 4th century BCE a
good 200 years after Lao tzus legendary
time walking this earth two copies of
the diluted Ching were amongst the Silk
texts discovered at ma Huang - a I've
mentioned my long day in a few episodes
this tomb from the Han Dynasty was found
intact second century BCE a little later
than the Gordian texts unearthed in 1993
and maybe didn't have the hoopla and
backstory that preceded the discovery of
the tomb of King Tutankhamen in November
1922 but this
my Wang to a discovery made 50 years
after Howard Carter's discovery in the
world of Chinese culture and history was
pretty big man these two versions of the
daodejing discovered in the Han era tomb
were not the same as the long-accepted
Wang B version what was pulled out of my
Wang day were texts that used a
different structure to order the
chapters of the daodejing
and this was called Wong Lotto ISM the
easiest way to differentiate Wong law
how ISM from the one we are all most
familiar with Lao Gong Taoism well one
Lao is considered more religious in
nature Lao Gong Taoism is the more
philosophical form of Taoism that has
the works of loud sir and drums ax at
its core Huang law stands for Huangdi
and loud sir Quang Deeping the Yellow
Emperor who I have it on good authority
didn't get too personally involved in
the writing of the text and this Wong
Law Taoism actually came out during the
Han Dynasty centuries after the earliest
known version of the daodejing
let's talk about trongsa for a bit the
trongsa is sometimes referred to as the
second book of the doll the doll to Jing
and the trongsa are the two core books
that make up the earliest works of
Taoism for Lao Truong Taoism these are
the holiest of holies Duong who lived
around 369 to 286 BCE but this puts him
smack dab in the middle of the warring
States period he was born
Guangzhou Joe was his given name as the
story goes he came from song state
present day on kwai province from the
town of mung Chun we know about wanza
the same way we know about loud so who
else but samat Chen and his shirt G or
records of the grand historian samaa
Chen said that wanza worked in a
so-called lacquer garden but there's no
explanation as to exactly what de
lacquer garden was he completely
rejected a life in government despite
his renown as a respected wise man of
letters
jeongja was a younger contemporary of
munsi although neither one mentions the
other in their work Confucius had
already been gone for a century by the
time Kwanzaa came along so you could see
although Taoism got the initial
headstart it wasn't by much and what
happens is these two philosophies and
religions Dahl ISM and Confucianism sort
of grow up and evolve in China
side-by-side century after century each
in their own time became political
forces at the highest levels of power
and sometimes the two political rivals
the Confucianism Daoism times they got
along sometimes they didn't the great
work that Towanda is credited with
writing or at least partially writing
had a total of 33 chapters broken down
into three parts it's the first part the
first seven chapters that are
specifically credited to master Wong
these are known as the inner chapters
the pnei p.m. the next 15 are known as
the outer chapters the ypn when the
balanced eleven are known as the mixed
chapters it said
Kwanza himself wrote the inner chapters
and his disciples were at the outer
chapters and the mixed ones were written
by various others scholars generally
agree the inner chapters those first
seven were written by a single person
now whether or not it was drawn zzz's
own brushstrokes that wrote the original
still open for debate like just about
everything from these ancient days who
knows as with the Delta King and the II
Ching you don't have to read the trongsa
in any particular order it's a mishmash
of wisdom and you could pick it up and
read random passages of stories and
sayings and then maybe it speaks to you
maybe it doesn't it's certainly quite
relatable if you're open-minded that is
the various chapters more or less fall
into one of three categories the first
involves stories word wanza spars
verbally with his sidekick way sure a
noted Sophists of his day what you get
her all these Abbot and Costello debates
between Quay sure and drawn zoo where
Tuan's ax turned
logic on its head or the stories have to
do with his well-known contempt and
disdain for governments of all kinds or
the stories often concerned themselves
with matters of death as a part of the
universal process here's one of my
favorites kWe sure and Duong zu you're
out taking a little stroll and just as
they came to a little bridge that ran
over a stream they paused
trongs aside and uttered outswim the
minnows so free and easy this is the
happiness of fish Quay she replied you
are not a fish once do you know the
happiness of fish twangs are replied you
are not me
whence do you know I don't know the
happiness of fish Quay she replied
granted that I am NOT you I don't know
about you then granted that you are not
a fish the case for your not knowing the
happiness of fish is complete drawings
are replied let's trace back to the root
of the issue when you said whence do you
know the fish are happy you asked me
already knowing I knew it so it was a
lot of stuff like this very witty and
sometimes downright hilarious Quay sure
also called Quaid's already gets
partially pigeon-holed in the taoist
category
cemet on calls him a prominent member of
the school of names ming chia these
Sothis i told you about in a previous
episode tong she was one example so so
despised by the roux school of
philosophers these mean chia thinkers
were Quaid's 'as mentioned several times
and not only the trongsa but the shinza
and other works too sumit on said of the
school of names quote they conducted
minut examinations of trifling points
and complicated and elaborate statements
which made it impossible for others to
refute their ideas end quote
the school of names was the philosophy
that wanted to explore what lies beyond
shapes and features and for this they
made contributions to early Taoist
thought they were the first to discover
the concept of what lies beyond shapes
and features as opposed to that
which lies within shapes and features
things that could be named what most
people are familiar with the concrete
versus the abstract the universal lies
beyond shapes and features and is
abstract unnameable the doll is nameless
that's why it's so hard to describe the
drawings are from a Chinese translation
point of view is not an easy nut to
crack it's filled with all kinds of
fanciful words and has all kinds of fun
with Chinese characters which are the
stuff of double entendres and playful
meanings that are sometimes impossible
to translate with certainty like any
literature it's really not the same when
you're reading it in translation so many
subtleties of Chinese language are
impossible to put into the words of
another language it's both literature
and philosophy all at the same time and
it's written in the form of short
stories dialogues and verse with most of
the stories featuring twine so himself
I've read it never read it in
translation wasn't written in convenient
vernacular Chinese not that that would
have been any easier for me every single
one of these philosophic works without
exception are written in the classical
Chinese script and a good amount of
nutrition is lost in the translation
process let's just look at some of the
passages of the drunk so I'll read two
or three and a few never read it before
now you'll get it I guess perhaps the
most famous passage is in the outer
chapters chapter 14 to be exact this
concerns a dream that shuang's ahead
this is like his signature passage from
the Tuan so that you'll read most often
it went like this quote formally I Tuan
Joe dreamt that I was a butterfly a
butterfly flying about feeling that it
was enjoying itself I did not know that
it was Joe suddenly I awoke and was
myself again the veritable Joe I did not
know whether it had formerly been Joe
dreaming that he was a butterfly or it
was now a butterfly dreaming that it was
Joe but between Joe and a butterfly
there must be a difference this is the
case of what is called the
formation of things end quote this sort
of gives you a little taste of Duong his
writing is sometimes irreverent but
almost always skeptical believing
nothing and questioning every kind of
accepted belief about life death good
and bad it's filled with fables and
stories that stimulate your mind to
rethink some things and laugh at some of
the reasoning behind accepted beliefs it
attempts to answer questions that are
both philosophical and intellectual
here's a couple passages from the Duong
so that give you an idea how he keeps
pounding home the message don't be so
sure what you know is right quote
consider shoe his chin is down
by his navel his shoulders stick up
above his head the bones at the base of
his neck point to the sky the five pipes
of his spine are on top his two thighs
form ribs yet by sewing and washing he
is able to fill his mouth by shaking the
fortune-telling sticks he earns enough
to feed ten when the authorities draft
soldiers a can walk among them
confidently flapping his sleeves when
they are conscripted workgangs
cripples are excused because of their
infirmity when the authorities give
relief grain to the ailing a
gets three measures along with bundles
of firewood thus one whose form is
crippled can nurture his body and live
out the years heaven grants him think
what he could do with his virtue was
crippled to end quote another passage
from the Duong Hood goes like this quote
route of heaven roamed on the south side
of mount vast when he came to the banks
of Clare stream he met nameless man and
asked him please tell me how to manage
the world go away you dunce nameless man
said such questions are no fun I was
just about to join the creator of things
and if I get bored with that I'll climb
on the bird merges with the sky and soar
beyond the six directions I'll visit
nothing whatever town and stay in
boundless
tree why do you bring up managing the
world to disturb my thoughts still root
of heaven repeated his question and
nameless man responded let your mind
wander among the insipid blend your
energies with the fearless spontaneously
accord with things and you will have no
room for selfishness then the world will
be in order and quote one more and then
we'll move on quote when drugs ax was
about to die his disciples wanted to
bury him in a well-appointed tomb John
Jesus said I have the sky and the earth
for inner and outer coffins the Sun and
the moon for je discs the Stars for
pearls and the ten thousand things for
farewell gifts isn't the paraphernalia
for my burial adequate without adding
anything oh but we were afraid the crows
and kites will eat you master a disciple
said well above ground I will be eaten
by crows and kites below ground by ants
you were robbing from one to give to the
other why play favorites
end quote yeah wrong say he was quite
the character
but despite that quirkiness the
government was always trying to recruit
him there's a part in this shirt G that
goes like this when a couple officials
from law young came down on a recruiting
mission to snag gwang-soo
he snapped back at them quote go away
quickly and do not soil me with your
presence
I would rather amuse and enjoy myself in
a filthy ditch than be subject to the
rules and restrictions in the court of a
sovereign end quote drugs are most
definitely parted ways with Confucius in
his contempt for government those sage
Kings so loved and revered by Confucius
Wong's have said about them quote the
Golden Age which preceded the earliest
kings had no government and Yao and
chuan instead of being so honored by
Confucius should be charged with having
destroyed the primitive happiness of
mankind by introducing government in the
age of perfect virtue men lived in
common with birds and beasts and were on
terms of equality with all creatures as
forming one family how could they know
among themselves the distinctions of
superior men and
small men end quote Taoism as a
philosophic thought and as a religion by
the Han Dynasty gave rise to a whole
number of Taoist sects that appeared on
the scene all having the name you know
the way of something or other way of
this or way of that way means doll so it
was always you know the
something-or-other doll also around the
Han that was when the fungus really took
off these puncture were these Taoist
practitioners of alchemy astrology
divination feng shui necromancy and all
the different manners of magic and
numerology if you needed to exorcise a
ghost you call your local thong shirt
Confucianism wasn't the only thing that
had a splendiferous time under emperor
wu of hun Taoism - and these puncture
they - really had it good emperor han wu
d patronized them like crazy it was a
generous sponsor to promote the study
and compilation of Taoist teachings a
lot of the practices of some of these
functions were absorbed into some of
these different Taoist sects so it's
during the Han the Western Han 206 BCE
to hce that's where these functions
first begin to appear with greater
frequency than before and these Taoist
practices and also bits and pieces of
the eaching commingled with many of
these ancient folk rituals that went
back as far as the Jo and even the Shang
so Taoism by the Han Dynasty especially
after summit on named at the Dalda
school had taken on a shape that was
much more approachable to the people by
the end of the Han Dynasty it'll get
juiced up with all kinds of traditions
beliefs and gods of every kind
imaginable and then junk dollying will
come around in 142 ad during the period
of the Eastern Han and Taoism will
become a full-fledged religion competing
with the best of them and during the
Eastern Han loud so will be given divine
status for the first time by the Emperor
so imagine the possibilities
also towards the latter part of the Han
you had the appearance of what was
called neo Taoism I don't want to get
into too much detail except I did want
to at least mention this before we close
things out for this episode
neo Taoism is also called shen shey now
pleco calls shen Shriya dark learning a
mystical school developed in the third
and fourth centuries characterized by
metaphysical speculations seeking to
adapt Taoist theories to a Confucian
milieu end quote
these Shen Shriya thinkers Wong B we
mentioned him gouache Yong Yong Zhao and
others as well
took the two holy books of Taoism the
Lao Tzu and the trongsa and explained
them in a different way and this
interpretation of the two books at that
time at least made perfect sense and
these two Guang and Zhong show they were
equally adept at using their
understanding of these works to tweak it
in very subtle ways so that it would
become recognizable and relatable to
anything Confucian it was gouache Jung
by the way who is given credit for
determining the order for the 33
chapters of the Tong Tsui these shan't
rest scholars of this mystical dark
school took all that Taoism and
Confucianism and didn't so much bring it
to a new level as much as they let it
down a different path these Guan Zhong &
Wong be commentaries of the daodejing
and the Tong Tsui mate Taoism current
and in tune with the latest
sophistication and philosophic thought
that was achieved by the end of the
eastern Han it's worth noting that all
these shen shey minded scholars and
their dark mysterious mystical ways
began thriving at the very same time
that Taoism the religion was ramping up
Jung da Lang had passed in 156 and all
his disciples that had plenty of time to
get the word out about this new but
familiar religion that also used the
accepted
Kanon and the almighty eaching and a
whole host of gods and spirits that was
the easiest cell imaginable amongst the
Lullaby shing in general these shen shey
or neo Taoist scholars share in common
an effort to reinterpret aspects of
Confucianism in ways to make it more
compatible with Taoism Wang B and Guo
Xiang were the biggest names and this
so-called neo Taoist movement
Guangcheng's commentary on the trongsa I
mean that's called as great and
achievement as the actual book itself
not only did Guang offer the most
respected commentary on what Zhang's
actually wrote he also added some of his
own interpretations like Confucianism
and Buddhism to what was originally
received from the most ancient sources
it continued to evolve and every once in
a while some commentary on the work
would come along and offer some new
insight that made complete sense
I haven't said too much if anything
about Buddhism I said at the outset I
was gonna try and not get bogged down in
that topic but it's important to know
the Buddhist religion and the philosophy
that the religion spawned was also
changing and evolving and as we finish
off the Han Dynasty we can see that
these big three confucianism taoism
buddhism they will start to co-mingle
find commonalities start having some
overlap and this will open up entire new
vistas that Confucius Lao Tzu or Johnson
never could have imagined in their
lifetimes in episodes to follow we'll
look at this in more detail especially
when we look at neo-confucianism so
these three religions and philosophies
will sample each other's content as
history unfolds the political animals
amongst the taoist crowd would from time
to time throughout Chinese imperial
history be favored by the occasional
Emperor or Empress for example we'll see
during the Tong dynasty Taoism really
struck
old and during the great emperor
xuanzong's time it even became the
official state religion of China the
great Shen song emperor he of the ankh
wave a Fame he was a very big time
taoist he did for Taoism what dong Chong
shoe did for Confucianism during his
reign Shen Zhong ordered all the various
Taoist sects and movements to be
combined under a single Taoist umbrella
this was in the 8th century and even at
the earliest moment when the tongue was
being founded the founder lien to sort
of puff himself up and head to his
legitimacy claimed he was a descendant
of Lao Tzu - remember they both had the
lessor name if you remember from an
earlier podcast the Empress roots attend
she was the only exception to the Tong
rulers she was a devout Buddhist and
embraced Buddhism over Taoism other than
the period when she held power the Tong
dynasty belonged to the Daoists as far
as who held the most sway at the tongue
imperial court
it was around 400 AD or there abouts
that the first dog hung was compiled the
doll tongue this was a collection an
official collection of everything there
was that was ever written or had
something to do with Taoism the first
time they did this there were about 1200
Scrolls of Taoist wisdom including of
course the louts Kwanza and the leads to
which is also sort of but not really
considered a doll was text when Taoism
was enjoying its heyday under Shen Zhong
during the tongue for a second time in
748 a new official town was compiled
then in 1016 during the song
the third doubt song came out which
improved on the second and called it of
many texts found out of step with the
times or commentaries from thinkers that
were playing too loose and fast with the
words of the Ancients and then in 1444
during the Ming Dynasty we have the last
version of the doubt sung and by then
there's about 5,000 Scrolls that make up
this final version of Taoism most sacred
and important texts okay I know I didn't
dump a lot of actual Taoist thought and
analysis on you I'm trying to focus more
on the history I hope that you got the
main idea we'll keep coming back to
Taoist philosophy in the coming episodes
part seven next time we still have all
the history that followed the fall of
the Han rough time in China the eastern
Han fell in 2:20 and it was followed by
the Three Kingdoms period 220 to 280
then the gene and after the gene bites
the dust' in 420 comes the northern and
southern dynasties 420 to 589 this is
also called the Six Dynasties period
finally when this sway comes along 589
order is restored at least for a while
and no matter how terrible things got in
China philosophers kept on doing their
thing what that was exactly come back
next time and find out Laszlo Montgomery
here signing off from somewhere in the
city of Los Angeles the city that made
SoCal famous I look forward to seeing
y'all next week for another exciting
episode of a China history podcast
you